In this exercise, you are one of a team of developers. Your team uses feature branches to manage changes.
You have been asked to make a change to the train-schedule app.
Instead of the app's main page header reading "Train Schedule," the customer wants it to read “Find your train!” or vice-versa (You may find the text the reverse of what is said so please do the reverse).
This text can be found in the project file views/index.jade, and you're going to have to change it.

Prerequisites:

A GitHub.com account
In order to push a change to the code, you will need to:

Install git
Configure git for ssh authentication with GitHub.com
Create a personal fork of the sample repository https://github.com/satyensingh/train-schedule-app.git
Clone your personal fork from GitHub
Create a feature branch to contain the change
Change the header text in views/index.jade from “Train Schedule” to “Find your train!”
Add the change in views/index.jade to the next commit
Commit the change
Push the change to the remote scm repository
Create a pull request to merge the feature branch into the master branch
Merge the pull request



Steps:
install git
steps for git for ssh authentication with github:
  mkdir githubkeys
  cd githubkeys
  ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "nawabrahil@gmail.com"
  add a secure paraphase
  Copy the SSH public key to your clipboard.
  open your repo in your github account
  In the upper-right corner of any page, click your profile photo, then click Settings.
  In the user settings sidebar, click SSH and GPG keys.
  Click New SSH key or Add SSH key.
  In the "Title" field, add a descriptive label for the new key.
  Paste your key into the "Key" field.
  Click Add SSH key.
  If prompted, confirm your GitHub password.

git clone https://github.com/satyensingh/train-schedule-app.git
git branch feature-branch
git checkout feature-branch
git status
edit the header text in views/index.jade from “Train Schedule” to “Find your train!”
git add .
git commit -m"changes in header"
git status
git checkout master
git remote add upstream  <REMOTE_URL>
git push origin main

steps to create pull requestOn GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.
  On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.
  In the "Branch" menu, choose the branch that contains your commits.
  Above the list of files, click  Pull request.
  Use the base branch dropdown menu to select the branch you'd like to merge your changes into,
  Then use the compare branch drop-down menu to choose the topic branch you made your changes in.
  Type a title and description for your pull request.
  To create a pull request that is ready for review, click Create Pull Request.
  To create a draft pull request, use the drop-down and select Create Draft Pull Request, then click Draft Pull Request.
  After your pull request has been reviewed, it can be merged into the repository 
